



../graphics/


nosep

    [Path=/home/moritz/Documents/thesis.git/writing/drafts/00_fonts/]
    times.ttf[
    BoldFont       = timesbd.ttf,
    ItalicFont     = timesi.ttf,
    BoldItalicFont = timesbi.ttf
    ]

Name: 

Date: March 8, 2021





Main Idea.

The Anglo-Irish philosopher and one of the founders of conservatism Edmund Burke 
(1729-1797) comments on the French Revolution (about 1789-1799) and laments 
the course it took. 
He holds the view that a state and government ought to be built on ancient 
traditions and rules. Those rules should be inherited from "canonized 
forefathers" (p. 65) and no one should add something unnatural to them; 
creating a government from scratch fills him with disgust. 
Addressing the French people, he tells them they threw away their great
heritage and forgot their honor. Had they built on the existing foundations,
they could have had the best government and state ever. Building on ancient
tradition would have lead to a rich, flourishing, strong, and admirable
country, constitution, monarchy, and people. At the end of this excerpt he 
states that virtue will bring happiness regardless of social standing and 
telling a commoner anything else is fiction; civil classes are established for
the benefit of the commoner as much as for the benefit of the lord.
From a memory studies perspective he is advocating for 
remembering the values and virtues of previous societies and implementing them
in the current society. In a way he seems to say one should never forget what
the forefathers did because their actions should guide current decisions.

Terms.

*
    political conservatism
    ancient, indisputable laws and liberties
    canonized forefathers
    low born servile wretches
    Maroon slaves
    moral equality of mankind

Select Quotes.


    "The Revolution was made to preserve our ancient, indisputable laws
        and liberties, and that ancient constitution of government which is
        our only security for law and liberty" (p. 65)
    "You had all these advantages in your ancient states; but you chose 
        to act as if you had never been moulded into civil society, and had 
        everything to begin anew. You began ill, because you began by despising 
        everything that belonged to you" (p. 66)
    "You had a smooth and easy career of felicity and glory laid open to 
        you beyond anything recorded in the history of the world; but you have 
        shown that difficulty is good for men" (p. 67)

Questions.


    Do you agree with Burke's view of revolution?
    If we follow Burke's way of creating government and society, can we 
        ever truly improve either?


